# "L" Score 
This notebook explores data from the elevated train system, the "L," in the city of Chicago.  Specifically, it considers the question of optimal positioning of new businesses based on turnstile-activation data from each stop on the "L" system.

The activation data is unidirectional in that only station entries are recorded; exits are not.  This makes the system highly underdetermined and complicates efforts to extract mappings of passengers between stations.  Approximate mappings might be derived using covariance between activity at stations at the extremities of each line, where non-resident entries are less likely, with major stations in the "loop" area (dominant commercial area with high volume "L" stations).  Such mappings would be most useful in that one could estimate demographic distributions of the commuters in a given geographic area and develop a value map that is specific to the target demographics of a business's customer base.

In this notebook we look specifically at a simple commuter density model using the station locations as source/sink points.  The model includes calibrated terms for pedestrians, cyclists and taxi/car-service riders.  For simplicity, the commuter-density map generated by this model is not constrained by appropriate physical boundaries (e.g. the river, Lake Michigan, train tracks etc...).  The distributions by which the model is calibrated have a length scale that is large compared to the inter-station separation, which renders the density map rather non-informative.

As an alternative means of estimating commuter density, we incorporate a simple commuter decision model in which a commuter in a given location will alway choose to go to the closest station.  This type of discretization is known as a Voronoi diagram.  We build these diagrams for two different distance metrics: Euclidean and Manhattan.  The Manhattan version is meant to capture the effect of commuters being forced to travel predominantly along the grid-like structure of a major city; i.e. the paths are constrained to be North-South or East-West and the Manhattan distance enforces this explicitly.

The color of each cell in the Voronoi diagrams reflects the average commuter density for that area.  It is computed by dividing the number of turnstile activations of the station in that cell by the total number of discrete grid points that were assigned to that station.  The actual density is appropriately scaled by the area per grid point.
